## Availability

Goal is 99.999999999% up time
## Resilience

Bad things will eventually happen. How quickly are we able to recover?

Recovery is based on many different variables
- The root cause
- Replacement hardware installation
- Software patch availability
- Redundant systems

#### MTTR

Mean Time to Repair (MTTR) describes the length of time it would take to replace something no longer available with component that are available.

## Cost

How much money is required?
- Initial installation
- Ongoing maintenance
- Replacement or repair costs
- Tax implications

## Responsiveness

Humans are sensitive to delays. How speedy the response should be is based on the context.

## Scalability

If something is highly used, one increases its resources so everybody can use it and vice versa. This is called **Elasticity**

## Ease of Deployment

An application has many moving parts
- Web server
- Database
- Caching server
- Firewall

Hardware resources, cloud budgets and the process of change control must be taken into consideration.

## Risk transference

Transferring the risk to a third-party is a good idea such as:
- Cybersecurity insurance
	- Recover internal losses
	- Protect against legal issues from customers

## Ease of recovery

Something will eventually go wrong. Having a plan on how to recover and what the best practices are is important.

## Patch availability

Most companies have regular updates
- Microsoft's monthly patch schedule

Some companies rarely patch, this might be a significant concern.

#### Inability to patch

What if patching wasn't an option?
Embedded systems like HVAC controls or Time clocks are hard to patch.

Additional security controls is to be used.

## Power

Electricity is needed. 

- UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply)
- Generators

are recommended.

## Compute

More than just a single CPU. More options available in the cloud. The part of the system that does the thinking and processing of the data.

May be limited to one processor or use multiple CPUs across multiple clouds.