## Overview

An attack vector or threat vector is a method used by the attacker to gain access or infect systems.

## Message-based vectors

One of the biggest and successful threat vectors.

- Malicious links or attachments in an Email
- Links in SMS and text messages

Many different social engineering attacks are based on these vectors.

## Image-based vectors

Some image formats can be a threat.

The SVG (Scalable Vector Graphic) format describes the image using XML. It allows embedding of other information inside that would run within the browser.

## File-based vectors

More than just `.exe` files.

Adobe PDF can sometimes be used with scripting.
Malicious files can also be compressed within a ZIP or RAR files.

Microsoft Office documents are also used to execute malicious macros.

## Voice call vectors

**Vishing** or Voice phishing is used by attackers to manipulate people over the phone.

**Spam over IP** is used for large-scale phone calls.

**War dialing** is the process of scan a list of numbers to search for modems, computers and fax machines.

**Call tempering** is the process of disrupting voice calls.

## Removable device vectors

Removable devices such as BadUSBs can be used to infect a device and bypass most security measures.

USB devices can act as keyboards. (USB Rubberducky)

Data exfiltration is also made easy with USB drives.

## Vulnerable software vectors

Unpatched applications (known/unknown) vulnerabilities can be used to to exploit systems.

Software not installed on the local device (Agentless) can be exploited by attackers. They will infect the central server and potentially gain access to whoever that connects to it.

## Unsupported systems vector

Patching is an important prevention tool. However sometimes there will be no patches for outdated systems such as an old OS.

All unsupported systems need to be identified and replaced with a newer version. A single system could be an entry.

## Unsecure network vectors

The network connects everything together which allows attackers to move around.

Latest protocols must be used for Wireless networks such as WPA3.

Open or rouge wireless networks allow attackers to easily get inside the network.

For both wired and wireless networks 802.1X is recommended to be implemented. This way nobody can get inside the network unless proper authentication is done.

Even Bluetooth can be used by attackers for reconnaissance purposes and sometimes exploitation when vulnerable.

## Open service ports

Most network-based services connect over a TCP or UDP port. Every open port is an opportunity for the attacker.

If the service or application behind the port is vulnerable/misconfigured, the attackers can gain access.

More services will expand the attack surface.

Firewall rules are used to allow/deny traffic to an open port.

## Default credentials

Most devices have default usernames and passwords. It is highly recommended to change them.

Some devices require users to change the password upon the first login.

## Supply-chain vectors

Attacker can get access to organizations by tampering the underlying infrastructure or the manufacturing process. 

Managed service providers (MSP) help organizations manage their infrastructure. This is a perfect place for attackers because if they have access to the MSP they will have access to the MSPs customers.

