## Control categories

These categories describe **how the control works.**

- **Technical** controls use technology such as hardware, software, and firmware to reduce risk.
	- Encryption
	- Antivirus software
	- IDS/IPS
	- Firewall
	- Least privilege

- **Managerial** Managerial controls are primarily administrative.
	- Risk assessments
	- Vulnerability assessments

- **Operational** controls help ensure that the day-to-day operations of an organization comply with the security policy. People implement them.
	- Awareness and training
	- Configuration management
	- Media protection (USB, drives, backup tapes and ...)

- **Physical** controls impact the physical world, such as locks on doors, fences, security guards, and other objects that you can physically touch.
	- bollards and other barricades
	- Mantraps
	- Lighting
	- signs
	- fences
	- sensors
	- 

## Control types

The control types **describe the goal** the control hopes to achieve.

- **Preventive** controls attempt to prevent an incident from occurring.
	- Hardening
	- Training
	- Security guards
	- Account disablement process (when employees leave)
	- IPS

- **Deterrent** controls attempt to discourage individuals from causing an incident.
	- Warning signs
	- Login banners

- **Detective** controls attempt to detect incidents after they have occurred.
	- Log monitoring
	- Security information and event management (SIEM)
	- Security audit
	- Video surveillance
	- Motion detection
	- IDS

- **Corrective** controls attempt to restore normal operations after an incident occurs.
	- Backups and system recovery
	- Incident handling processes (incident response)

-  **Compensating** controls are alternative controls used when a primary control is not feasible.
	- Mostly a temporary alternative security measure to the original meassure
	- Using Time-based One-Time Password (TOTP) while waiting for Smart Cards to arrive

- **Directive** controls provide instruction to individuals on how they should handle security- related situations that arise.
	- Policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines
	- Change management