
## Definitions

**Audit trail**: allows security professionals to re-create the events that preceded a security incident.

**Knowledge-Based Authentication**
- **Static**: Static KBA is typically used to verify your identity when you’ve forgotten your password. (exp. What's the name of your pet?)
- **Dynamic**: Dynamic KBA identifies individuals without an account. The site queries public and private data sources like credit reports, vehicle registrations, and property records. It then generates questions based on those information.
	- Organizations use this for high-risk transactions, such as with a financial institution or a healthcare company.

**Hard Token**: Hardware token (Google Authenticator but hardware)
**Soft Token**: Software token (Google Authenticator)

**HMAC-based One-Time Password (HOTP)**: The authentication server and the token device share a secret key. Each time the key is used, the same algorithm is performed to generate the next token and stay in sync.
**Time-based One-Time Password (TOTP)**: change their code based upon the current time

**False acceptance:** A biometric system incorrectly identifies an unknown user as a registered user.
- **False Acceptance Rate (FAR)**: percentage of times false acceptance occur.
**False rejection**: Incorrectly rejects a registered user
	**False Rejection Rate (FRR)**: percentage of times false rejections occur.
**True acceptance**: correctly accepted a registered user
**True rejection**: correctly rejected an unknown user



