**Risk awareness** is the acknowledgment that risks exist and must be addressed to mitigate them

**Inherent risk** refers to the risk that exists before controls are in place to manage the risk.

**Residual risk** is the amount of risk that remains after managing or mitigating risk to an acceptable level

**Control risk** refers to the risk that exists if in-place controls do not adequately manage risks.

**Risk tolerance**: It refers to the organization’s ability to withstand risk. While risk appetite describes how much risk the organization is willing to take on, risk tolerance describes their ability to take it on.

**Risk avoidance:** An organization can avoid a risk by not providing a service or not participating in a risky activity.

**Risk Mitigation**: The organization implements controls to reduce risks.

**Risk Acceptance:** When the cost of a control outweighs the risk, an organization will often accept the risk.

**Risk Transference:** When an organization transfers the risk to another entity or at least shares the risk with another entity,

A **risk control assessment (sometimes called a risk and control assessment)** examines an organization’s known risks and evaluates the effectiveness of in-place controls.

**single loss expectancy (SLE)**: The SLE is the cost of any single loss of a specific asset.
- Asset Value * Exposure Factor = SLE
- example: 1000 * 50% = 500

**annualized rate of occurrence (ARO)**: The ARO indicates how many times the loss will occur in a year. If the ARO is less than 1, the ARO is represented as a percentage. 10% = 0.1

**annualized loss expectancy (ALE)**: SLE * ARO
- SLE (500) * 0.1 = 50

**Risk register:** a document or tool that organizations use to identify, assess, and manage risks. It typically includes a list of identified risks, along with information about their likelihood, potential impact, and current status.

