**Business Continuity Plan (BCP)**: This plan includes disaster recovery elements that provide the steps used to return critical functions to operation after an outage.

**Business Impact Analysis (BIA)**: an important part of a BCP. It helps an organization identify critical systems and components that are essential to the organization’s success. It identifies mission-essential functions and the maximum downtime limit for systems.

**Recovery Time Objective (RTO)**: identifies the maximum amount of time it can take to restore a system after an outage

**Recovery Point Objective (RPO)**: The recovery point objective (RPO) refers to the amount of data you can afford to lose.

**Mean time between failures (MTBF)**: identifies the average (the arithmetic mean) time between failures. Higher MTBF numbers indicate higher reliability of a product or system.

**Mean time to repair (MTTR)**: The MTTR identifies the average (the arithmetic mean) time it takes to restore a failed system.

**Continuity of operations planning (COOP)**: focuses on restoring mission-essential functions at a recovery site after a critical outage.

**Hot Site**: A hot site would be up and operational 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and would be able to take over functionality from the primary site quickly after a primary site failure.

**Cold Site**: A cold site requires power and connectivity but not much else. The organization brings all the equipment, software, and data to the site when it activates it.

**Warm Site**: A compromise of cold and hot site. Some of the components and systems are ready but might not be up to date or maintained.

**Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP)**: identifies how to recover critical systems and data after a disaster.

**Parallel processing**: In a parallel processing test, the recovery site starts operations and runs alongside the main site (in parallel).

