**Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC)**: An HMAC is a fixed-length string of bits similar to other hashing algorithms such as MD5 and SHA-256 (known as HMAC-MD5 and HMAC-SHA256, respectively). HMAC also uses a shared secret integrity key to add some randomness to the result and only the sender and receiver know the secret key.

**Birthday attacks** exploit collisions in hashing algorithms.

**Key stretching** is an advanced technique used to increase the strength of stored passwords. Instead of just adding a salt to the password before hashing it, key stretching applies a cryptographic stretching algorithm to the salted password. Three common key stretching techniques are bcrypt, Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2), and Argon2.

**Ephemeral keys**: Ephemeral refers to something that lasts a short time. Systems use these key pairs for a single session and then discard them.

**Elliptic curve cryptography (ECC)** doesn’t take as much processing power as other cryptographic methods. It uses mathematical equations to formulate an elliptical curve. It then graphs points on the curve to create keys.

**Entropy** refers to the randomness of a cryptographic algorithm.

**Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)** is a group of technologies used to request, create, manage, store, distribute, and revoke digital certificates.

**Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)**: OCSP allows the client to query the CA with the serial number of the certificate. The CA then responds with an answer of “good,” “revoked,” or “unknown.”

**Certificate stapling** is an alternative to OCSP. The certificate presenter (such as a web server) appends the certificate with a timestamped digitally signed OCSP response from the CA.

**Certificate pinning** is a security mechanism designed to prevent attackers from impersonating a website using fraudulent certificates.

**Key escrow** is the process of placing a copy of a private key in a safe environment. This is useful for recovery.****

**Canonical Encoding Rules (CER)** or **Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)**: The base format of certificates. CER is an ASCII format and DER is a binary format.