**Regulated data** is data that is governed by external laws and regulations with which the organization must comply.

**Intellectual property** is information that is crucial to the way that an organization runs its business. Intellectual property may consist of data that is protected by copyright, trademark, and/or patent law.

**Legal information** is among the most sensitive information maintained by an organization. Legal information may include data about current or future lawsuits or other legal strategies.

**Top secret.** If data in this category is disclosed to unauthorized entities, it could cause exceptionally grave damage to national security.

**Secret**. If data in this category is disclosed to unauthorized entities, it could cause serious damage to national security.

**Confidential.** If data in this category is disclosed to unauthorized entities, it could cause damage to national security.

**Private data** is information about an individual that should remain private. Two classic examples within IT security are Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and protected health information (PHI).

**Confidential data** is information that an organization intends to keep secret among a certain group of people.

**Restricted data** is another term for regulated data that is governed by outside obligations.

**Degaussing.** A degausser is a very powerful electronic magnet. Passing magnetic media through a degaussing field renders the data on tape and magnetic disk drives
unreadable.

