## Overview

Mitigation is the process of reducing the impact of a security event or a potential security event.

## Patching

One way to keep the systems secure and stable before a security event happens.
- Monthly updates
- Third-party updates (drivers, application developers)
- Auto-update (Not always the best option)
- Emergency out-of-bound updates
	- When a very high priority vulnerability has been found and attackers are taking advantage of it.

## Encryption

Encryption prevents access to application data files.
- File system encryption
- File level encryption (Windows EFS)
- Full disk encryption (FDE)
	- Encrypt everything from the OS to the user files
	- Bitlocker for Windows
	- FileVault for macOS
- Application data encryption
	- Encryption managed by the app
	- Stored data is always protected

## Monitoring

To identify and quickly mitigate security events, it is important to have monitoring over the assets.

- **Aggregate information from devices**
	- Technologies built-in the devices (servers, switches, routers, firewalls and etc.)
- **Sensors**
	- Sits external to devices
	- IPS
	- Firewall, authentication, web server access, and database transaction logs
- **Collectors**
	- Many times logs are scattered everywhere
	- Collectors help to bring all logs to a central point such as a SIEM (Security Information and Event Manager).

## Least Privilege

Rights and permissions should be set to the bare minimum. Everyone gets exactly the rights that they need to complete their jobs. If higher access is required, it should be given temporarily.

## Configuration enforcement

Enforcing the configuration of systems that are connecting to the network. This is usually done during the login process and checks for things like
- If the latest OS version is installed
- If all the patches are installed
- If AV is up to date
- EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response) version
- Firewall and EDR status
- Certificate status


If a device does not meet the requirements, it is quarantined. The device would be put into a separate VLAN to make the changes and configurations and finally try to login again.

## Decommissioning

When devices are not needed anymore, there should be a formal policy that makes it clear what needs to be done to get rid of them. Mostly associated with storage devices such as
- Hard drive
- SSD
- USB drives

 These devices can either be recycled or completely destroyed before getting rid of them.
