## System hardening

System hardening refers to the Operating System running on a server.
- Windows
- Linux
- iOS / macOS
- Anroid
- etc.

- Always apply updates (Security patches, service packs and OS updates)
- Have a password policy
- Least privilege
- Limit the network access from devices
- Monitor and secure (AV, SIEM)

## Encryption

Types of encryption that can be used:

- **File system encryption**
	- Selecting individual files to encrypt
	- **Windows Encrypting File System (EFS)**
- Full disk ecnryption (FDE)
	- Secures the entire drive including OS and user files
	- Windows BitLocker
	- macOS
- Network encryption
	- Encrypting all network communication
	- Virtual Private Network (VPN)

## Endpoint

Users have multiple devices that they use throughout the day. We need to secure all of these.

Attacks can be inbound or outbound to these devices.

Defense in depth is required here.

## Endpoint detection and response (EDR)

A different method of threat protection. It can detect a threat through signatures, do behavioral analysis, machine learning, process monitoring.

EDR can also investigate the threat. (Root cause analysis)
- If EDR gets suspicious of a process, it will investigate it first and then decide to either stop or allow it.

Once a threat is recognized, EDR will take action
- Isolate the system
- Quarantine the threat
- Rollback to a previous config

## Host-based firewall

A software-based firewall running in the background.

These devices have access to network traffic before they are encrypted so they can identify and block unknown processes.

They can either be managed individually on each system or centrally from one console.

## Finding intrusions

Host-based intrusion Prevention System (HIPS) watches everything inbound to systems and tries to identify known attacks. It can also secure OS and application configs. They are often built into endpoint protection software.

## Open ports and services

Every open port is a possible entry point. All ports should be closed except required ones.

Using a firewall is a good idea to go about this.
- NGFW (Next generation Firewall) is better since you can control not only the port number but also the services as well.

## Default password changes

Change the default password.

## Removal of unnecessary software

All software contains bugs. Get rid of the ones that you don't need.